[Music]
twelve tips from neurobiologists to
always look young we are all looking for
the Fountain of Youth or some way to
build a time machine but our efforts so
far haven't paid off so what can we do
now
to stay fresh and youthful for years to
come well studies show that even the
smallest and simplest changes in your
daily life can significantly slow down
the process of Aging if you're ready to
turn back the hands of time then let's
go cut down on your portions a recent
study published in molecular and
cellular proteomics journal has found a
connection between a person's meal sizes
and their body's aging process the
researchers found that reducing the
amount of food you consume leads to
changes in your biochemistry that affect
how quickly cells age plus eating less
boosts your immune system and gives you
more energy it's still crucial that your
body gets all the necessary vitamins and
nutrients so we're not talking about
starvation here just take a closer look
at your diet and try to incorporate more
fruits vegetables and other nutritious
and delicious foods eat more white
mushrooms while you re-evaluating and
switching up your diet don't forget to
add white mushrooms to it researchers
from the Penn State Center for plant and
mushroom products for health have
confirmed that people who regularly
consume white mushrooms feel much
younger than their actual age this is
all thanks to the amino acid ergo
thiamine and the antioxidant glutathione
which are both special elements in the
mushrooms that repair damaged cells the
even help prevent cancer cardiovascular
disease and Alzheimer's I'd call that
some magic mushrooms
reduce your sugar intake decreasing the
amount of sweet stuff you put into your
body can lead to amazing health benefits
it helps you stay in shape clears up
your skin and even prolongs the youth of
your entire body the thing is when we
don't have so many simple carbs like
sugar or high fructose corn syrup in our
system our bodies start to produce a
chemical substance that protects tissue
cells from damage it's also recommended
to increase the number of useful fats in
your diet you can find them in products
like fish meat and vegetable oils
following this simple plan decreases
your risk of developing heart disease
cancer and Alzheimer's do coordination
exercises if you want to stay young
looking and feel good for as long as you
can don't underestimate the power of
exercising you have to make it a part of
your life as for the best workouts for
slowing down the aging process that
would be coordination exercises this
type of training really works your brain
cognition and well coordination plus
they're super easy to do like this one
for instance all you'll need is a lemon
a chair and yourself lie down on your
back
with the chair above your head hold the
lemon between your feet and pull your
legs up until you can set the lemon on
the chair bring your legs back down and
then up again to retrieve the lemon
putting you back in the starting
position people who are really flexible
and fit can even set the lemon on the
floor behind their head without a chair
this feat will be your end goal go
cycling riding a bike is a cherished
childhood memory well guess what it's
also a good way to stay young for longer
researchers at the University of
Birmingham and King's College London
have found that regular bike rides slow
down the effects of time on the body
frequent cyclers burn off fat before it
can stick on their body and they don't
have problems with blood cholesterol
levels this allows them to age more
slowly without the problems faced by
people who don't get enough cardio or
physical activity as for men
specifically cycling keeps their
testosterone high and don't worry about
losing strength or muscles cycling won't
take them away from you
looks like it's time to bust out your
old bike or buy a new one and finally
combine business with pleasure make new
friends new friends and acquaintances
make life way more colorful and bring
exciting opportunities but that's not
all they can do in their book the
telomere effect Elizabeth Blackburn and
Elissa EPEL
explain how a long term friendship
positively affects the special parts on
chromosomes that are responsible for
aging different studies have also proven
that camaraderie and friendly
relationships with people can
significantly decrease the speed at
which the brain ages so the more friends
you have and the warmer your
relationships are the better it's never
too late to make new friends just open
up and be yourself the right people will
find you take up dancing
who doesn't love boogying am i right
whether you're good at it or you could
use some help
dancing is still fun and carefree and
the fact that it helps retain your youth
makes it even more appealing sort of
like with cycling it all comes down to
physical activity and its ability to
slow down the process of Aging on the
brain surprisingly the effect of dancing
shows incredibly noticeable improvements
in the brain that have a positive effect
on the body plus dances with different
types of choreography are even more
useful like those of different genres
rhythms and speeds definitely the ones
that require certain steps or movement
all of these improve your memory and
cognitive abilities just find your
favorite style and dance away
learn to control stress controlling
stress is an incredibly powerful tool
that can seriously improve your health
and mental state and with those effects
come prolonged youth as well our
attitude towards the things happening
around us matters especially when we run
into problems as Charles our swindle
once said life is 10% what happens to
you and 90% how you react to it instead
of seeing an obstacle as a dead end
think of it as a challenge you need to
overcome other than keeping your life on
track
this attitude strengthens blood flow to
the heart and brain and causes short
bursts of cortisol this hormone helps
form defensive responses to external
threats and stressful situations and
this entire process is directly
connected to staying youthful so look on
the bright side there's always something
to stay positive for get out of the
house leading an active lifestyle scares
gray hairs away too the more you
socialize talk with others and visit
places of interest such as exhibitions
or concerts the more memories you create
and the younger you stay it's also a
great idea to see your job as a way not
only to make money and pay your bills
but to communicate with interesting
people and acquire useful skills as well
all these things give us Pleasant
emotions and as a result prolong our you
it's as simple as that learn something
new even though our brains work less
actively as we age we can still keep our
intellectual skills and abstract
thinking at a high level to achieve this
we need to regularly learn something new
so that our brain stays on top of its
game a good way to keep your mind clear
especially at an older age is by
learning foreign languages it's not easy
but the results will be noticeable right
away plus it's always fascinating to be
able to express yourself in another
language isn't
not to mention people with a high level
of education live longer because as a
rule they lead a healthier lifestyle
drink less alcohol and do more Fitness
follow these steps and you'll certainly
keep a razor-sharp mind limit the time
you spent talking on your salad
according to a study published in the
European review for medical and
pharmacological sciences using a cell
phone too often can cause premature
aging and that's because the gadgets
electromagnetic radiation harms blood
cells liver enzymes endocrine glands and
muscle heart and bone tissue it also
throws your hormones out of balance the
researchers say that people with an
increased risk of developing these
problems aren't just those who talk on
the phone a lot but also people who live
near power lines factories and cell
towers a safe distance from these huge
objects is 70 feet sometimes even one
mile it's better to make some changes in
this area of your life to an improved
health will follow stop using cliches
you know how when somebody asks you how
you're doing he just gives them the same
polite answer every single time there's
a good reason to change that up when you
speak creatively you stimulate your
brains to main speech sensors the
wernicki and Broca's areas jazzing up
your speech keeps your brain function
strong and of course helps you stay
young try to always come up with new
responses to usual questions like how
are you and what's new use your
vocabulary to the fullest and expand it
use more anecdotes interesting quotes
your own jokes and cool stories in your
speech it'll surely make you an even
better conversation partner and allow
you to find common ground with pretty
much anyone
what about you
do you have any of your own secrets to
eternal youth tell us in the comments
below don't forget to click subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life